##Introduction

Programming is about writing instructions for a computer to execute. We know computers understand commands using 1s and 0s, that is binary. However, understanding and writing binary can become very cumbersome for human beings. Hence, in order to program computers we use <strong>porgramming languages</strong>, these programming languages are closer to human languages than binary, enabling us to write instructions for computers.

In order for these programming languages to be understood and executed by computers, it is converted to binary. There are numerous programming languages which can be utilized to program computers and they all have their own characteristics, purposes and nuances. We will use Java to teach the basics programming.

All programs are written as a set of instructions/statements. All programs in Java are a set of instructions written line by line which are also called statements. In Java, every statement is concluded with a `;`. In the remainder of this document, some basics of programming are explained with examples in Java.

Once a java program is written, we have a `.java` file with a set of statements. In order for the machine to perform these operations, the java program is converted into an intermediary machine-independent format known as bytecode, this conversion is done by a process called compilation. Once compiled into bytecode, it can then be run on different platforms by a virtual machine called JVM. The JVM will then convert this bytecode into the local machine code (binary) and then the program can be run.

##Types

Programs can hold data of different data types. Some of the different types of data that can be used and manipulated in java programs are:

* boolean - Stores `true` or `false` values
* int - Stores integer vales such as `1`, `57`, `-89000`, etc.
* double - Stores decimal values such as `-12.748838`, `56.76e4`
* char - Stores single character values such as `'a'`, `'n'`
* String - Stores multiple characters together, such as `"Hello, World!"`

##Variables

Variables contain data of a specific type in programs. These variables can be changed during the execution of the program. Variables are usually distinguished by their name, and can only hold data of a specific type as described in the previous section.

Variables naming in Java needs to follow some rules:

1. Variable names are alphanumeric, but cannot start with a number.
2. Variable names are case sensitive.
3. Variable names cannot have spaces in them.
4. Variable names can contain `_` and `$` as the only permitted special characters.

We declare a variable of a specific kind, in the following manner:

`<TYPE NAME> <VARIABLE NAME>;`

Some examples of such variable declarations are as shown below:

`int a;`
`String name1;`
`double _score;`
`boolean truth$;`

Some invalid variable names are as shown below:

`1one`
`56`
`first name`

##Assignment

Assignment is an operation by which variables are given a value that suits their type. This is accomplished using the `=` operator, which is called the assignment operator. Some examples of such assignment operation statements are as given below:

`int a = 10;`
`double temperature = 98.6`
`String firstName = "Mark"`

##Operators

Operators are special symbols that are used to perform specific functions on variables and constants. Operators are generally of different kinds. Programming allows for the use of standard mathematical operators such as the following:

1. Addition `+` : `a + b` finds the sum of two compatible variables a and b.
2. Subtraction `-` : `a - b` finds the difference between two compatible variables a and b.
3. Multiplication `*` : `a * b` finds the product of two compatible variables a and b.
4. Division `/` : `a / b` finds the quotient on dividing two compatible variables a and b.
5. Modulo `%` : `a % b` finds the remainder on dividing two compatible variables a and b.

##Order of Operations

When variables are being manipulated by operators, the operators have an order of precedence, just like in regular mathematics.
1. Parentheses.
2. Multiplication and Division.
3. Addition and Subtraction.

Within each level the order of execution is left to right on the right side of the assignment operator.

##Comments

Comments are little notes, written in programs by programmers in order to explain anything to people viewing the programs. These comments are not executed in any manner, they are purely for explanation and to make things easier for people reading the source code. Comments can be included in any program, by using the following:

* Single line comment - `\\ <SINGLE LINE COMMENT HERE>`
* Multi line comment - `\* <MULTIPLE LINE COMMENT HERE> *\`

For example,

`\\This is a single line comment`

```
\* This is line 1 of a multiline comment
this is line 2 of a multiline comment *\
```

##Output

Output is any result that comes from executing a program, this output can be achieved in multiple ways. The simplest way to show output is to use `System.out.println(<ANY OUTPUT GOES HERE>)`. Output can have variables of different types.

Along with this markdown file, there is an associated java file, named `BasicProgramming.java`. That will show you the examples of the concepts introduced in this section.
