##Functions

Functions are blocks of statements that perform some specific function by taking input(s) and giving output of a specific type. The purpose of a function is to modularize, specific tasks and offer reusability of those code statements, by simply calling the function as an when required. Functions can return values using the `return` keyword. Functions are named just like variables, and follow the same rules of naming.

All the statements in a function are enclosed in `{}` brackets after the function definition.

Functions are defined in the following manner

```
<OUTPUT TYPE OF FUNCTION> <FUNCTION NAME> (<INPUTS>) {
  <ALL STATEMENTS GO HERE>
}
```

This may seem a little abstract at this point, but let's take an example where we need to construct a function which adds two numbers and returns the result. A function like this is written in the following manner.

```
int addNumbers (int number1, int number2) {
  int sum = number1 + number2;
}
```

Or, let's take an example of a function that greets a user by printing "Hello" along with their name. Such a function does not return any value, but merely prints to output. The output type for such a function is `void`. The void denotes that the function doe not return any values. This is done in the following manner.

```
void printHello(String name) {
  System.out.println("Hello " + name +"!");
}
```

##Classes

Classes are the building blocks of programming in Object Oriented Programming (OOP). Classes define the structure of all programs written an OOP programming language like Java. Classes are defined to have data members and functions. The intuition behind modularizing programs into classes is discussed in more detail in the next section.

Classes are defined in Java using the `class` keyword, in Java. Classes are distinguished by class names, much like variables are distinguished by variable names. The naming rules for class names are identical to the naming rules for variables.

The syntax for making a class in Java is as shown below

`class <CLASS NAME>`

As an example, in order to define a class with the name Person, we do so as shown below

`class Person`

When defining classes, we define them with associated variables, which are also referred to as data members, and related functions for the class. These data members and functions are written within the curly braces succeeding the class definition, in the following manner

```
class <CLASS NAME> {
  <DATA MEMBERS>

  <FUNCTIONS>

}
```

As an example, the associated data members, and functions related to a class Person can be defined as shown below

```
class Person {
  String name;
  int age;

  void printName() {
    System.out.println(name);
  }

  void printAge() {
    System.out.println(age);
  }
}
```

In Java all statements and programs are written in classes. So, once written how does Java execute the program? Java executes the program by executing all statements in the `main` function. `main` here is a keyword, that specifies to Java where execution needs to begin. When writing programs in Java, we hence define the `main` function where we specify how the program behaves.

As a standard format, until necessary concepts are introduced, a `main` function is defined in the following manner.

```
public static void main(String args[]) {
  //This is where the program starts executing
}
```

##Objects

Objects form the basis of Object Oriented Programming. Objects are instances of a class. What that means is that a class defines the pattern for a lot of similar objects.

This may seem a little confusing, so let's consider our previous example of a class, named `Person`. Objects, of the class `Person` are instances of the class `Person`, each of these objects carry a copy of all the data members and functions in the class. Hence an instance of the class Person, will have their own unique, `name`, `age`, `printName()` and `printAge()`.

This basically means that all of objects, are instances of a class that define their data members and functions. You will achieve a little more understanding of objects and classes in the next section.

We create objects of a class using the `new` keyword. Objects are created using a statement as shown below. Objects have names just like variables, classes and functions. And, they follow the same rules of naming.

`<CLASS NAME> <OBJECT NAME> = new <CLASS NAME>();`

As an example, if we have to create an object `mark` of the `Person` class, we do so in the following manner

`Person mark = new Person();`

Along with this markdown file, there is an associated java file, named `ClassesAndObjects.java`. That will show you the examples of the concepts introduced in this section.
